Before we get started, let’s get something out of the way, Final Fantasy: Record Keeper is squarely a freemium title in terms of the underlying mechanics. There’s a stamina/timer system and a premium currency system that can be replenished via IAP. What makes Record Keeper amazing, however, is the fact that DeNA uses the idea of free-to-play to truly offer that concept to players willing to put some time into the game. Stamina replenishes relatively quickly and has the potential to instantly fill as you progress through the game. Premium currency is addressed by offering a secondary premium currency that can only be earned in-game and can substitute for the IAP-laden currency (it’s also earned at a good pace in the game). Thus, players can play through Record Keeper and conceivably have the same chances to succeed as those that pay.This is where the nostalgia bomb comes into play for fans of the series. Every major story arc in nearly every single Final Fantasy game is up for grabs as a dungeon within Record Keeper. Enter the Final Fantasy VI archive and you’re instantly listening to the game’s amazing soundtrack and playing scenes from the title. Music from each title is used when appropriate and sounds absolutely amazing. Enemies for each game are not only recreated faithfully, but are also appropriate for the specific story arc you are playing in. Probably one of the coolest things I saw is how Record Keeper successfully converts enemies and characters from later Final Fantasy games into the amazing sprite visuals used in this title. Simply put, everything here is an homage to the series and a love letter to its fans. It also plays very well into the overall theme of keeping a record of each game. I’m not sure how a game such as Record Keeper impacts folks that haven’t played these games before, but for me it’s an great experience.To give an idea of how battles work, each Final Fantasy title ‘archive’ consists of dungeons which make up the individual story arcs. Each dungeon is comprised of several battles (which require stamina to enter) and each battle typically has 3-5 rounds of enemies. The final battle for each dungeon concludes with a boss battle from that story arc. Even those boss battles are accurate to the title as the intricacies and weaknesses of each boss is preserved in Record Keeper and should be exploited to succeed. In fact, players are typically graded on how well they exploit those weaknesses in a boss battle. It’s a very nice touch and adds a layer of strategy that rewards those that have already played these games and encourages various combinations of heroes. At the conclusion of each dungeon, players are graded yet again with unlockables and heroes available depending on how well you succeed.There’s so much more in terms of depth for Record Keeper that I’m pretty impressed with what they’ve managed to do. Abilities and spells can be created and upgraded at any time so long as you have the coin and parts necessary to do so (which can be earned randomly during battles). The same goes for weapons and armor, which are randomly earned in-game or won using the game’s premium currency lottery (one of the only freemium elements that I’m not the biggest fan of). The game also bestows special stat and experience increases if you use a hero or a weapon in the game that they come from (yes, even weapons are game-accurate) which encourages rotation of games. There’s just a lot that can be considered which goes a long way towards enjoying Record Keeper in the long run.Combining a respectful homage to its source material with a decent battle system and loads of unlockables, Final Fantasy: Record Keeper is the real deal in my book. It’s also a game in which the majority of its freemium systems simply exist in the background as options for players to quickly advance rather than pay walls that sooner or later need to be addressed. I implore all fans of the series to give this game a try, as it’s nearly a must-play for those folks in my opinion.